now these are the judgments which you
now these are the judgments which you shall set before them if you buy a
shall set before them if you buy a
shall set before them if you buy a Hebrew servant he shall serve six years
Hebrew servant he shall serve six years
Hebrew servant he shall serve six years and in the seventh he shall go out free
and in the seventh he shall go out free
and in the seventh he shall go out free and pay nothing if he comes in by
and pay nothing if he comes in by
and pay nothing if he comes in by himself he shall go out by himself if he
himself he shall go out by himself if he
himself he shall go out by himself if he comes in married then his wife shall go
comes in married then his wife shall go
comes in married then his wife shall go out with him if his master has given him
out with him if his master has given him
out with him if his master has given him a wife and she has borne him sons or
a wife and she has borne him sons or
a wife and she has borne him sons or daughters the wife and her children
daughters the wife and her children
daughters the wife and her children shall be her masters and he shall go out
shall be her masters and he shall go out
shall be her masters and he shall go out by himself but if the servant plainly
by himself but if the servant plainly
by himself but if the servant plainly says I love my master my wife and my
says I love my master my wife and my
says I love my master my wife and my children I will not go out free then his
children I will not go out free then his
children I will not go out free then his master shall bring him to the judges he
master shall bring him to the judges he
master shall bring him to the judges he shall also bring him to the door or to
shall also bring him to the door or to
shall also bring him to the door or to the doorpost and his master shall pierce
the doorpost and his master shall pierce
the doorpost and his master shall pierce his ear with an awl and he shall serve
his ear with an awl and he shall serve
his ear with an awl and he shall serve him for ever and if a man sells his
him for ever and if a man sells his
him for ever and if a man sells his daughter to be a female slave she shall
daughter to be a female slave she shall
daughter to be a female slave she shall not go out as the male slaves do if she
not go out as the male slaves do if she
not go out as the male slaves do if she does not please her master who has
does not please her master who has
does not please her master who has betrothed her to himself then he shall
betrothed her to himself then he shall
betrothed her to himself then he shall let her be redeemed he shall have no
let her be redeemed he shall have no
let her be redeemed he shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people
right to sell her to a foreign people
right to sell her to a foreign people since he has dealt deceitfully with her
since he has dealt deceitfully with her
since he has dealt deceitfully with her and if he has betrothed her to his son
and if he has betrothed her to his son
and if he has betrothed her to his son he shall deal with her according to the
he shall deal with her according to the
he shall deal with her according to the custom of daughters if he takes another
custom of daughters if he takes another
custom of daughters if he takes another wife he shall not diminish her food her
wife he shall not diminish her food her
wife he shall not diminish her food her clothing and her marriage rights and if
clothing and her marriage rights and if
clothing and her marriage rights and if he does not do these three for her then
he does not do these three for her then
he does not do these three for her then she shall go out free without paying
she shall go out free without paying
she shall go out free without paying money
money
money he who strikes a man so that he dies
he who strikes a man so that he dies
he who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death however if
shall surely be put to death however if
shall surely be put to death however if he did not lie in wait
he did not lie in wait
he did not lie in wait but God delivered him into his hand then
but God delivered him into his hand then
but God delivered him into his hand then I will appoint for you a place where he
I will appoint for you a place where he
I will appoint for you a place where he may flee but if a man acts with
may flee but if a man acts with
may flee but if a man acts with premeditation against his neighbor to
premeditation against his neighbor to
premeditation against his neighbor to kill him by treachery you shall take him
kill him by treachery you shall take him
kill him by treachery you shall take him from my altar that he may die and he who
from my altar that he may die and he who
from my altar that he may die and he who strikes his father or his mother shall
strikes his father or his mother shall
strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death
surely be put to death
surely be put to death he who kidnaps a man and sells him or if
he who kidnaps a man and sells him or if
he who kidnaps a man and sells him or if he is found in his hand shall surely be
he is found in his hand shall surely be
he is found in his hand shall surely be put to death and he who curses his
put to death and he who curses his
put to death and he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put
father or his mother shall surely be put
father or his mother shall surely be put to death if men contend with each other
to death if men contend with each other
to death if men contend with each other and one strikes the other with a stone
and one strikes the other with a stone
and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist and he does not die but
or with his fist and he does not die but
or with his fist and he does not die but is confined to his bed if he rises again
is confined to his bed if he rises again
is confined to his bed if he rises again and walks about outside with his staff
and walks about outside with his staff
and walks about outside with his staff then he who struck him shall be
then he who struck him shall be
then he who struck him shall be acquitted he shall only pay for the loss
acquitted he shall only pay for the loss
acquitted he shall only pay for the loss of his time and shall provide for him to
of his time and shall provide for him to
of his time and shall provide for him to be thoroughly healed and if a man beats
be thoroughly healed and if a man beats
be thoroughly healed and if a man beats his male or female servant with a rod so
his male or female servant with a rod so
his male or female servant with a rod so that he dies under his hand he shall
that he dies under his hand he shall
that he dies under his hand he shall surely be punished notwithstanding if he
surely be punished notwithstanding if he
surely be punished notwithstanding if he remains alive a day or two he shall not
remains alive a day or two he shall not
remains alive a day or two he shall not be punished for he is his property if
be punished for he is his property if
be punished for he is his property if men fight and hurt a woman with child so
men fight and hurt a woman with child so
men fight and hurt a woman with child so that she gives birth prematurely yet no
that she gives birth prematurely yet no
that she gives birth prematurely yet no harm follows he shall surely be punished
harm follows he shall surely be punished
harm follows he shall surely be punished accordingly as the woman's husband
accordingly as the woman's husband
accordingly as the woman's husband imposes on him and he shall pay as the
imposes on him and he shall pay as the
imposes on him and he shall pay as the judges determine but if any harm follows
judges determine but if any harm follows
judges determine but if any harm follows then you shall give life for life eye
then you shall give life for life eye
then you shall give life for life eye for eye tooth for tooth hand for hand
for eye tooth for tooth hand for hand
for eye tooth for tooth hand for hand foot for foot burn for burn wound for
foot for foot burn for burn wound for
foot for foot burn for burn wound for wound
wound
wound stripe for stripe if a man strikes the
stripe for stripe if a man strikes the
stripe for stripe if a man strikes the eye of his male or female servant and
eye of his male or female servant and
eye of his male or female servant and destroys it
destroys it
destroys it he shall let him go free for the sake of
he shall let him go free for the sake of
he shall let him go free for the sake of his eye and if he knocks out the tooth
his eye and if he knocks out the tooth
his eye and if he knocks out the tooth of his male or female servant he shall
of his male or female servant he shall
of his male or female servant he shall let him go free for the sake of his
let him go free for the sake of his
let him go free for the sake of his tooth if an ox cause a man or a woman to
tooth if an ox cause a man or a woman to
tooth if an ox cause a man or a woman to death then the arks shall surely be
death then the arks shall surely be
death then the arks shall surely be stoned and its flesh shall not be eaten
stoned and its flesh shall not be eaten
stoned and its flesh shall not be eaten but the owner of the arks shall be
but the owner of the arks shall be
but the owner of the arks shall be acquitted but if the orcs tended to
acquitted but if the orcs tended to
acquitted but if the orcs tended to thrust with its horn in times past and
thrust with its horn in times past and
thrust with its horn in times past and it has been made known to his owner and
it has been made known to his owner and
it has been made known to his owner and he has not kept it confined so that it
he has not kept it confined so that it
he has not kept it confined so that it has killed a man or a woman the ox shall
has killed a man or a woman the ox shall
has killed a man or a woman the ox shall be stoned and its owner also shall be
be stoned and its owner also shall be
be stoned and its owner also shall be put to death if there is imposed on him
put to death if there is imposed on him
put to death if there is imposed on him a sum of money then he shall pay to
a sum of money then he shall pay to
a sum of money then he shall pay to redeem his life whatever is imposed on
redeem his life whatever is imposed on
redeem his life whatever is imposed on him whether it is gored a son or gored a
him whether it is gored a son or gored a
him whether it is gored a son or gored a daughter according to this judgment it
daughter according to this judgment it
daughter according to this judgment it shall be done to him if the ox cause a
shall be done to him if the ox cause a
shall be done to him if the ox cause a male or female servant he shall give to
male or female servant he shall give to
male or female servant he shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver
their master thirty shekels of silver
their master thirty shekels of silver and the Ox shall be stolen and if a man
and the Ox shall be stolen and if a man
and the Ox shall be stolen and if a man opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and
opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and
opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and does not cover it and an ox or donkey
does not cover it and an ox or donkey
does not cover it and an ox or donkey falls in it the owner of the pit shall
falls in it the owner of the pit shall
falls in it the owner of the pit shall make it good he shall give money to
make it good he shall give money to
make it good he shall give money to their owner but the dead animal
their owner but the dead animal
their owner but the dead animal shall be is if one man's ox hurts
shall be is if one man's ox hurts
shall be is if one man's ox hurts another's so that it dies then they
another's so that it dies then they
another's so that it dies then they shall sell the live ox and divide the
shall sell the live ox and divide the
shall sell the live ox and divide the money from it and the dead ox they shall
money from it and the dead ox they shall
money from it and the dead ox they shall also divide or if it was known that the
also divide or if it was known that the
also divide or if it was known that the ox tended to thrust in time past and its
ox tended to thrust in time past and its
ox tended to thrust in time past and its owner has not kept it confined he shall
owner has not kept it confined he shall
owner has not kept it confined he shall surely pay ox for ox and the dead animal
surely pay ox for ox and the dead animal
surely pay ox for ox and the dead animal shall be his own
shall be his own
shall be his own [Music]